All right before we moving on let's fix one issue that we face here.
So
here we defined relationship method as votes
while in our questions table
we also have votes column. As you saw in the previous
lesson we can follow one of two options. The first
option is changing the relationship methods name
to something else and that's it
we don't need to touch the existing column name.
And the second option we keep the relationship method's
name as it was and rename the column name in the
questions table and make changes in some places
where the column called. it's up to you to choose which
option you like.
But again here I'll choose the second option so that we
have consistent column naming. So let's see where
the first column called. I'm sure it called in question
factory
here let's change to votes count
and let me open questions
index.blade.php
find votes
OK here it is
here I'll change these to votes count
All right
Let's save all changes
and then go to our terminal and create new migration.
All right now let's open our latest migration file
and here in up method
let's rename the vote column by saying: table
rename column from votes to votes_count.
And here in down method we simply do the opposite
rename column
from votes_count to votes. Save the change and now
we can go back to our terminal and run our migration.
OK
the migration file has been migrated successfully.
Let me check if everything is working.
I think so far so good.
All right let's see how this many to
many polymorphic relation work
in our tinker as we did in the previous lesson
OK here I'm going to find two users
and assign them into variables.
and then I'm going to find two questions and
assign them into other variables.
Also I'm going to find first answer of question 1 and question 2.
All right now let's simulate user 1 to vote up the question 1.
And here we can say user 1 vote questions
and then attach
so it's almost the same thing as we were working
with many to many relationship. Here we can pass
question one instance in the first argument.
And we also need to specify the vote in array like so
now if we call the command again
and change to negative one
will get error integrity constraint violation. This
error occurred because we defined unique index
composed by user_id votable_id and votable_type.
This will make sure that a user can only vote a single
question once. Actually we can check whether
a particular user has voted the question or not
by saying let's say user 1 votes vote questions
where votable_id
question 1 id and then exists
and here we get true.
Now if I change to user 2 I get false because
user 2 hasn't voted the question 1.
Now let's see the actual vote record of the user 1.
And here we can see the record.
All right let's do another simulation.
Let's say you have 2 vote down the question 1.
Here we can say user 2 vote questions
attach question 1 vote
-1
Now let's say user 1 vote up the first answer of question 1.
Here we can say user 1 vote answers
attach answer 1 vote 1
like so. And then let's say user 2 vote down
the first answer of question 1.
Here we can say user 2 vote answers
attach answer 1 and then -1
OK
Now let's see another use case in our voting system.
For example
user 1 has voted up the answer 1
And now he want to update the vote to vote down the answer 1.
How can we do that? To do that
we can say User 1 vote answers
and then we can utilize update existing pivot. First
argument is the related object in this case
answer 1 and the second argument is
the new value in array like this vote -1.
All right now let's see the question 1's
votes by saying question 1 votes
Here it has two votes and we can do the same thing
to answer 1 answer one
votes
note that the vote column is not there. If you want
to see that we can say question 1 votes with
parenthesis and then with pivot.
And here we can specify what column in
pivot table to be included. In this case
we only need vote and end with get
as we can see
now the vote column included in our results.
Now you might be asking how can we know how
many users that vote down a particular question?
That's a good question.
To do that we can do like this question 1
votes where pivot vote -1 and then count
and we can do almost a similar query in summing votes by calling
sum vote
and here we get negative 1
and we can also see how many users that vote up
this question by changing this to one